src/ingest_data/ingest_data.md, before:

# Data Ingestion System

## Overview

This project implements a system for ingesting data from files, specifically focusing on ZIP archives containing CSV files. The architecture is designed using the Factory design pattern, allowing for easy extensibility and maintenance.

## Components

### Abstract Base Class: `DataIngester`

- Defines the interface for all data ingesters.
- Contains the abstract method `ingest`, which must be implemented by subclasses.

### Concrete Class: `ZipDataIngester`

- Inherits from `DataIngester`.
- Implements the `ingest` method for ZIP files containing CSVs.
- Contains several helper methods:
  - `_extract_zip`: Extracts the contents of a ZIP file.
  - `_get_csv_files`: Lists CSV files in the extracted directory.
  - `_handle_csv_files`: Processes the found CSV files, ensuring that exactly one CSV file is present.
- If there are any other method to ingest data ,we can add it here and its open for expansion.

### Factory Class: `DataIngestorFactory`

- Uses the Factory design pattern to instantiate the appropriate data ingester based on the provided file extension.
- Returns a `ZipDataIngester` for ZIP files or raises an error for unrecognized extensions.

## Logical Aspects

- **Modularity**: The design is modular, separating concerns(SOC) among different classes.
- **Extensibility**: New ingester classes can be added for additional file types (e.g., JSON, XML) without modifying existing code.
- **Error Handling**: Robust error handling is included for various conditions (e.g., file type mismatches, missing or multiple CSV files).
- **Encapsulation**: Each class has a clear responsibility:
  - `DataIngester`: Interface definition.
  - `ZipDataIngester`: Logic specific to ZIP file ingestion.
  - `DataIngestorFactory`: Centralizes the creation of ingesters.

## Design Pattern: Factory

The Factory design pattern is utilized in the `DataIngestorFactory` class, encapsulating the logic required to create instances of different ingester classes based on file type. This promotes loose coupling, allowing client code to remain unaware of specific ingester implementations.

## Conclusion

This code provides a clean, extensible design for handling data ingestion, utilizing abstract classes and a factory pattern to promote flexibility and maintainability. It serves as a solid foundation for further enhancements as more data sources and formats are introduced.

## Usage

To use this system, create an instance of `DataIngestorFactory` and call `get_data_ingestor` with the desired file extension. For example:

```python
factory = DataIngestorFactory()
ingestor = factory.get_data_ingestor('.zip')
data_frame = ingestor.ingest('path/to/your/file.zip')

Commit message:

- Added a virtual environment named 'mlenv' and started using it. - Updated .gitignore to exclude the virtual environment. - Created requirements.txt for tracking packages. - Tested the code for ingesting and extracting archives. - Added corresponding unit tests.

src/ingest_data/ingest_data.md, after:

# Data Ingestion System

## Overview

This project implements a system for ingesting data from files, specifically focusing on ZIP archives containing CSV files. The architecture is designed using the Factory design pattern, allowing for easy extensibility and maintenance.

## Components

### Abstract Base Class: `DataIngester`

- Defines the interface for all data ingesters.
- Contains the abstract method `ingest`, which must be implemented by subclasses.

### Concrete Class: `ZipDataIngester`

- Inherits from `DataIngester`.
- Implements the `ingest` method for ZIP files containing CSVs.
- Contains several helper methods:
  - `_extract_zip`: Extracts the contents of a ZIP file.
  - `_get_csv_files`: Lists CSV files in the extracted directory.
  - `_handle_csv_files`: Processes the found CSV files, ensuring that exactly one CSV file is present.
- If there are any other methods to ingest data, we can add them here, and it's open for expansion.

### Factory Class: `DataIngestorFactory`

- Uses the Factory design pattern to instantiate the appropriate data ingester based on the provided file extension.
- Returns a `ZipDataIngester` for ZIP files or raises an error for unrecognized extensions.

## Logical Aspects

- **Modularity**: The design is modular, separating concerns (SoC) among different classes.
- **Extensibility**: New ingester classes can be added for additional file types (e.g., JSON, XML) without modifying existing code.
- **Error Handling**: Robust error handling is included for various conditions (e.g., file type mismatches, missing or multiple CSV files).
- **Encapsulation**: Each class has a clear responsibility:
  - `DataIngester`: Interface definition.
  - `ZipDataIngester`: Logic specific to ZIP file ingestion.
  - `DataIngestorFactory`: Centralizes the creation of ingesters.

## Design Pattern: Factory

The Factory design pattern is utilized in the `DataIngestorFactory` class, encapsulating the logic required to create instances of different ingester classes based on file type. This promotes loose coupling, allowing client code to remain unaware of specific ingester implementations.

## Path Adjustment Explanation

The line `sys.path.append(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), '..', '..', 'shared'))` is used to modify the Python path at runtime. This allows the script to access modules located in the `shared` directory, which is not on the default module search path. 

### Why This is Necessary:

- **Modular Code Organization**: By placing shared constants and configurations in a separate directory, we maintain a clean code structure. This approach promotes reusability and separation of concerns, allowing different parts of the application to access common configurations without duplicating code.
  
- **Ease of Importing**: Without modifying the system path, the Python interpreter would not be able to locate the `shared` module from the script’s directory. By appending the `shared` directory to the path, we enable straightforward imports, making the code easier to read and maintain.

## Conclusion

This code provides a clean, extensible design for handling data ingestion, utilizing abstract classes and a factory pattern to promote flexibility and maintainability. It serves as a solid foundation for further enhancements as more data sources and formats are introduced.

## Usage

To use this system, create an instance of `DataIngestorFactory` and call `get_data_ingestor` with the desired file extension. For example:

```python
factory = DataIngestorFactory()
ingestor = factory.get_data_ingestor('.zip')
data_frame = ingestor.ingest('path/to/your/file.zip')
